So that's what we're gonna be focusing
on today is service workers and
how we write them what they're for.
How we write them, how we position
them within a website in particular.
And I say website on purpose because
most of the other materials that are out
there that talk about service workers
seem to focus on progressive web apps.
I just wanna give a quick note
about progressive web apps.
That's how I actually first started
experiencing them was last summer I
decided I wanted to build myself
a progressive web app to install on my
phone.
It's a little app that lets you like take
notes when you're at a restaurant and
then be reminded when you
come back to that restaurant.
And I wanted to build that out for myself
and I wanted to do it with web technology.
I don't wanna go learn Java or
whatever you use on iOS these days,
I can't keep up with it.
But I didn't want to learn any of that.
I just wanted to use the good old
web technologies that I knew.
And so I did dive in for
the first time to service workers and
try to figure out how they work.
And I was doing exactly what any of
you have done if you have tried,
which is just randomly googling around
saying somebody tell me what this is.
I do wanna point out I've
got in the links here.
I found about halfway through that
journey that one of my favorite people on
the internet Jeremy Keith had
written a book called going offline.
This is an absolutely fantastic book.
So please go buy that book.
It's one of the best resources I found for
trying to sift through this stuff.
But there's still just lots and lots of
bits and pieces, incomplete information.
There's lots of reference on MDN.
There's lots of write ups that
Google has done about it.
Trying to piece together all of these
things is a very manual process, and
literally the code that we'll be going
through today, was done exactly that way.
I set out with here's what I kind of
want to build and I know the pieces but
I'm gonna have to fiddle with it and
I spent a lot of time fiddling with it.
And trying it and trying it over and
over and over again.
So I certainly,
am not at the place where I can just
write this stuff perfectly from scratch.
I don't think that's
even reasonable to do.
A couple of things to point out there
are in here a couple of resources
that you should know about,
in particular, this one on workbox.
That is a framework for
writing service workers.
So it's like a library framework thing
that you load into your service worker.
It has variety of API's for
declaratively setting stuff up.
I think it's a great idea to have
something like this because quite frankly,
many of you are probably gonna get
pretty intimidated pretty quick.
When you see just how much
code we're gonna be writting.
I'm actually excited by being able to
write my own code in a service worker.
So I went the opposite direction.
Instead of using a framework or library,
I really wanted to have all
of that fine grained control.
And with that control comes
an understanding of things.
And I really wanted to understand
what was possible what I could do.
And there's a lot of things that
are possible that don't even
get talked about and will kind of cover
those various things as we go along.
But, I certainly understand that, if you
are trying to get something shipped at
work, you don't have a lot of time,
to just, greenfield explore.
And, that would be a really great starting
point to get a service worker up and
going, that'd be a really
great starting point for him.
So back to what I was saying a moment
ago about the idea of sites versus
applications.
Everybody seems to think
about it in terms of apps.
That's where I started learning and
building was with apps.
But I'm gonna talk to you today about
using service workers with everything.
That's not a web application.
Because I think one of the things that
we have missed on the web, and by missed
I mean, I think we didn't realize how
important this was a long long time ago.
If we'd realized a long long time
ago how important this problem is,
I think we would have had something like
service workers a decade or two ago.
And I'm not even sure whether
the technology platform was mature enough
for that.
But it would have been a problem that we
had been trying to solve a lot earlier.
And it feels relatively not that solved.
And so when you hear people talk about
service workers, they immediately think,
well, I'm not building an app,
so I don't need that.
And the claim that I'm going to make and
I'm hoping to enable at least from
a creative thinking perspective.
All of you that are watching this
to do is I'm gonna make the claim
that literally every single website on
the internet needs a service worker.
Every single website, I mean,
the static one pager that
somebody wrote 20 years ago.
And I mean the fancy gmails of the world
and I mean everything in between.
I think they all need a service worker.
And I think that as we are moving into
this age of taking advantage of the web
platform we get focused on the shiny
stuff like I got CSS Grid, or I got this.
And now I have these like
progressive retina images and
I've got all these crazy web fonts.
And I've got SVG and I've got animations
we get focused and rightly so
those are fun and exciting things.
We get focused on the shiny stuff,
but I think we forget some of the most
important base plumbing
fundamentals of the web.
And I think the web got it wrong web and
by web, I mean broadly,
the browser technology,
I think we got something wrong.
And service workers at least the way
that I've positioned them in my mind,
they go to trying to fix that.
The thing that I'm talking about is
that we have always had some notion of
information being cached in our browsers.
And we often think of well,
because I have it cached.
It means I don't have to reload it
the next time I go to the website.
That's unfortunately not really the case.
If you were to dig into
the source code of a browser and
look at all of the different
paths that it goes through,
to decide when it sees a request.
Whether or not to try to load it from
cache to even look in the cache or
load it from cache versus getting
it from a server or what it does.
You'd probably be blown away
at just how complex that is.
It's not a binary decision,
like it's in the cache, I use it or
it's not in the cache, and I don't.
And I think that's one of the problems
that we have is that we've so
simplistically cemented in our mind.
Something so uninteresting, is caching,
that we just think,
the browser takes care of that for me.
In our interest this morning, many of you
talked about being all over the world and
all these different places I travel for
work.
I'm all over the place and
just a few days I'll be in Lithuania.
And then I'll be in other parts of Broad.
And that means I spend most of
my time not on my home Wi-Fi or
in my nice United States of America.
High-speed Wi-Fi connection sort of stuff
I use T-Mobile is my mobile provider.
And that means that I get free
internet everywhere I go.
But it's at 2G speeds so
that's the downside of it.
And I can pay like $50 a month to
upgrade it to 4G but I'm cheap like that
I don't normally do that unless I'm
going to be somewhere for a long time.
Few weeks in Australia yeah,
I'm gonna pay to upgrade but
if it's a few days I just suffer
through the 2G experiences of the web.
And so maybe more than most I get to see
firsthand what it's like when we build not
only slow experiences but
basically broken experiences for people.
We get so myopically focused on
well my boss and my sales and
marketing departments tell me that all of
our customers have high speed internet.
And they access us at home on a desktop
computer with a high end monitor and
stuff like that we get so focused on
that's where our customer is that we
forget, the fact that
customers are mobile.
This is one of the things
I think that we've missed.
We forget the fact that I can be your
customer here in the United States
of America and I can load up your website.
And I can be thinking I want to buy
something from you or pay for a service.
And then in the middle of that decision
get on a plane and fly to Lithuania or
some other bizarre,
far off exotic place, whatever.
And I get off the plane and I connect to
my 2g speeds and I'm still your customer
and I still wanna experience
the web exactly like I did before.
And guess what?
I'm willing to tolerate the idea.
I know that it's not gonna be
as perfect as it was back home.
But there's a difference between I'm
willing to tolerate a degraded experience
and I'm willing to just
essentially assume I get nothing.
I literally get nothing
because nothing will love.
For example,
many times I'll be sitting in an airport
board waiting to get on the plane.
I'll see a tweet that comes by with
a blog post and it looks interesting.
So I click on the blog post, I start
reading the first few paragraphs and
then they board us on the plane.
So I go, put the phone in my pocket,
I get on the plane.
I'm in the middle of that blog post.
I'm still reading it.
I wanna see what that
blog post has to say.
I go get on the plane,
we turn our phones into airplane mode.
30,000 feet in the air,
there's no Wi Fi on this stupid plane,
and I open up your blog page and I get
a blank white failed to loads screen.
Why is it that I had that content before I
took off and I didn't do anything because
I got navigated around and
went to a whole different website.
It's still an open tab in
my mobile browser, but
I get on the plane and it's gone.
And there's actually 1000 different
reasons why that might have happened.
The website might have had dynamic
resources in the background that tried
to make a request and
that might have been why it happened.
It's actually probably an ad that
messed it up, that did that to my site.
Whatever the reason is,
now I don't have your blog post and for
the next three hours, I can't read
the thing that I wanted to read.
I think that's what we've missed about
the web is that we've made these
terrible assumptions that people are gonna
experience the web in a contiguous way.
That when you sit down to
experience something about the web,
you're not gonna be interrupted.
You're gonna have perfect Wi Fi
perfect internet connectivity,
perfect battery power.
You're never gonna have any
sort of interruption to that.
That's the way that we design the web.
And the reality is that that's not
the way the web is experienced,
by the vast majority of
the human population.
It's a very,
vanishingly small amount of us that get
to have the privilege of experiencing
this continuous perfect web all the time.
And it's such a first world privilege
problem when we're like, my god,
GitHub took four seconds to load.
What are they doing right like but
that's a reality for
a lot more of the world
than I think we understand.